docs/ksinv.md, before:

## KSINV program
The KSINV program allows ... spin-restricted

```
memory,2000,m ! memory specification

basis={
default,aug-cc-pwCVQZ ! orbital basis
set,oep;default,aug-cc-pVDZ/mp2fit ! OEP basis
}

symmetry,nosym ! KSINV does not use symmetry

angstrom
geometry={
2

C        0.000000    0.000000   -0.646514
O        0.000000    0.000000    0.484886
}

hf,maxit=30 ! HF calculations

{CCSD;core;dm,1325.1} ! reference CCSD calculation
e_ref_ccsd=energy ! save energy to provide as a reference to KSINV

! Save relaxed density to the first record - required by KSINV
{matrop;load,den,den,1325.1;save,den,1325.1}

acfd;ksinv,refden=1325.1,e_ref=e_ref_ccsd,thr_fai_oep=1.7d-2 ! KSINV calculation
```
... bla-bla ...
```
memory,2000,m ! memory specification

basis={
default,aug-cc-pwCVQZ ! orbital basis
}

symmetry,nosym ! KSINV does not use symmetry

angstrom
geometry={
2

C        0.000000    0.000000   -0.646514
O        0.000000    0.000000    0.484886
}

hf,maxit=30 ! HF calculations

{CCSD;core;dm,1325.1} ! reference CCSD calculation
{matrop;load,den,den,1325.1;write,den,dm.dat,status=rewind,prec=sci}
```
... bla-bla ...
```
memory,2000,m ! memory specification

basis={
default,aug-cc-pwCVQZ ! orbital basis
set,oep;default,aug-cc-pVDZ/mp2fit ! OEP basis
}

symmetry,nosym ! KSINV does not use symmetry

angstrom
geometry={
2

C        0.000000    0.000000   -0.646514
O        0.000000    0.000000    0.484886
}

hf,maxit=0 ! HF calculation with 0 iterations, KSINV uses this for initialization

{matrop;read,den,type=density,file=dm.dat;save,den,1325.1} ! read stored density matrix

acfd;ksinv,refden=1325.1,e_ref=-113.285493180105,thr_fai_oep=1.7d-2 ! KSINV calculation
```

- **refden** record from which the reference density is read
- **orb** record from which the occupation numbers are read (default: ‘2100.2’)
- **save** record in which the resulting orbital coefficients, eigenvalues, etc. are written (default: '2101.2')
- **e_ref** total energy of calculations from which reference density is provided
- **thr_inversion**
- **maxit** maximum number of iterations (default '30')
- **minit** minimum number of iterations (default '3')
- **mixing_a**
- **mix_switch_iter**
- **backfilter** ... (default '1')
- **thr_sym** threshold for symmetrization of the OEP basis set to enforce OEP basis exhibits full symmetry of molecule. Set the threshold to 1d-10 to enable symmetrization. (default: ‘0d0’)
- **thr_fai_oep** threshold for processing OEP basis according to Section IIB5 in Ref. [2] (default: ‘1.7d-2’)
- **thr_overlap_oep** threshold for processing OEP basis according to Section IIB2 in Ref. [2] (default: ‘1d-99’)
- **vref_fa** if set to $\neq$ 0, enable the use of the Fermi-Amaldi potential as reference potential when applying the charge condition. Otherwise, the reference potential is constructed according to Eq. (45) of Ref. [2] (default: '1')
- **thr_oep** threshold for throwing out contributions corresponding to small eigenvalue differences appearing in the denominator when constructing the so-called lambda term $1/(\varepsilon_a - \varepsilon_i)$ of the static Kohn-Sham response function (default: ‘1d-6’)
- **solve** matrix inversion methods to solve the OEP equation. The different options are: GESV, TSVD, GTSVD. GESV corresponds to a direct solution without any regularization technique. TSVD and GTSVD correspond to two solutions with regularization according to Eqs. (55) and (56) of Ref. [3], respectively. (default: 'GTSVD')
- **thr_solve** threshold used during matrix inversion to solve the OEP equation with TSVD and TGSVD methods. Note that the default threshold of 1d-99 results in the absence of regularization (default: ‘1d-99’)
- **plot_always** if set to $\neq$ 0, enable plotting for every iteration. Otherwise, only final results are plotted. (default: '0')
- **plot_vc** if set to $\neq$ 0, enable writing of file with correlation potential (default: '0')
- **plot_vx** if set to $\neq$ 0, enable writing of file with exchange potential (default: '0')
- **plot_vxc** if set to $\neq$ 0,enable writing of file with exchange-correlation potential (default: '0')
- **plot_vref** if set to $\neq$ 0, enable writing of file with reference potential (default: '0')
- **plot_rho_ks** if set to $\neq$ 0, enable writing of file with Kohn-Sham density (default: '0')
- **plot_rho_ref** if set to $\neq$ 0, enable writing of file with reference reference (default: '0')
- **plot_rho_diff** if set to $\neq$ 0, enable writing of file with difference between Kohn-Sham and reference density (default: '0')
- **plot_x** if set to $\neq$ 0, enable writing of file data along x-axis (default: '0')
- **plot_y** if set to $\neq$ 0, enable writing of file data along y-axis (default: '0')
- **plot_z** if set to $\neq$ 0, enable writing of file data along z-axis (default: '0')
- **gridsize**
- **plotrange**
- **verb** determines the level of verbosity in the output file, integer values of 0, 1, 2, and 3 provide different levels of verbosity (default ’0’)

plotting example

```
import sys
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

def load_potential(filename):
    """Read data from file."""
    coord = list()
    pot = list()
    for line in open(filename):
        aux = line.split()
        coord.append(float(aux[2]))
        pot.append(float(aux[3]))
    coord = np.array(coord)
    pot = np.array(pot)
    return coord, pot

coord, vref = load_potential('vref-final.z')
coord, vx = load_potential('vx-final.z')
coord, vc = load_potential('vc-final.z')
coord, vxc = load_potential('vxc-final.z')

plt.plot(coord, vref+vx, color='orangered', label='$v_x$')
plt.plot(coord, vc, color='dodgerblue', label='$v_c$')
plt.plot(coord, vref+vxc, color='lawngreen', label='$v_{xc}$')

plt.ylabel('Potential (Hartree)', fontsize=16)
plt.xlabel('r (Bohr)', fontsize=16)
plt.ylim(-2, 0.35)
plt.xlim(-5, 5)
plt.legend(frameon=False, fontsize=14)
plt.show()
```
![](ksinv_co.png)

**Bibilography:**  
[1] J. Erhard, E. Trushin, A. Görling [J. Chem. Phys.](https://aip.scitation.org/doi/full/10.1063/5.0087356) 156, 204124 (2022)  
[2] E. Trushin, A. Görling, [J. Chem. Phys.](https://aip.scitation.org/doi/full/10.1063/5.0056431) 155, 054109 (2021)  
[3] P. Bleiziffer, A. Heßelmann, A. Görling [J. Chem. Phys.](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.4818984) 139, 084113 (2013)

Commit message:

ksinv docu - one more iteration

docs/ksinv.md, after:

## KSINV program
The program KSINV solves the inverse Kohn-Sham (KS) problem, i.e. it finds the KS quantities (potentials, KS orbitals and eigenvalues) corresponding to a given density. The program is designed to work with densities provided by many-body methods such as Coupled Cluster (CC) or Full Configuration Interaction (FCI). The program is currently limited to non-spin polarized systems. The implementation was described and tested in Ref. [1].

RESPONSE AG REF

Example input file for KS inversion of the reference density provided by the CCSD method for the CO molecule:
```
memory,2000,m ! memory specification

basis={
default,aug-cc-pwCVQZ ! orbital basis
set,oep;default,aug-cc-pVDZ/mp2fit ! OEP basis
}

symmetry,nosym ! KSINV does not use symmetry

angstrom
geometry={
2

C        0.000000    0.000000   -0.646514
O        0.000000    0.000000    0.484886
}

hf,maxit=30 ! HF calculations

{CCSD;core;dm,1325.1} ! reference CCSD calculation
e_ref_ccsd=energy ! save energy to provide as a reference to KSINV

! save relaxed density to the first record - required by KSINV
{matrop;load,den,den,1325.1;save,den,1325.1}

acfd;ksinv,refden=1325.1,e_ref=e_ref_ccsd,thr_fai_oep=1.7d-2 ! KSINV calculation
```
It may be useful to split the reference density and KS inversion calculations into two separate calculations. In this case, the reference density can be saved:
```
memory,2000,m ! memory specification

basis={
default,aug-cc-pwCVQZ ! orbital basis
}

symmetry,nosym ! KSINV does not use symmetry

angstrom
geometry={
2

C        0.000000    0.000000   -0.646514
O        0.000000    0.000000    0.484886
}

hf,maxit=30 ! HF calculations

{CCSD;core;dm,1325.1} ! reference CCSD calculation
{matrop;load,den,den,1325.1;write,den,dm.dat,status=rewind,prec=sci}
```
and then the KS inversion performed:
```
memory,2000,m ! memory specification

basis={
default,aug-cc-pwCVQZ ! orbital basis
set,oep;default,aug-cc-pVDZ/mp2fit ! OEP basis
}

symmetry,nosym ! KSINV does not use symmetry

angstrom
geometry={
2

C        0.000000    0.000000   -0.646514
O        0.000000    0.000000    0.484886
}

hf,maxit=0 ! HF calculation with 0 iterations, KSINV uses this for initialization

{matrop;read,den,type=density,file=dm.dat;save,den,1325.1} ! read stored density matrix

acfd;ksinv,refden=1325.1,e_ref=-113.285493180105,thr_fai_oep=1.7d-2 ! KSINV calculation
```
The following options are available for the KSINV program:
- **refden** record from which the reference density is read
- **orb** record from which the occupation numbers are read (default: ‘2100.2’)
- **save** record in which the resulting orbital coefficients, eigenvalues, etc. are written (default: '2101.2')
- **e_ref** total energy of calculations from which reference density is provided
- **thr_inversion**
- **maxit** maximum number of iterations (default '30')
- **minit** minimum number of iterations (default '3')
- **mixing_a**
- **mix_switch_iter**
- **backfilter** ... (default '1')
- **thr_sym** threshold for symmetrization of the OEP basis set to enforce OEP basis exhibits full symmetry of molecule. Set the threshold to 1d-10 to enable symmetrization. (default: ‘0d0’)
- **thr_fai_oep** threshold for processing OEP basis according to Section IIB5 in Ref. [2] (default: ‘1.7d-2’)
- **thr_overlap_oep** threshold for processing OEP basis according to Section IIB2 in Ref. [2] (default: ‘1d-99’)
- **vref_fa** if set to $\neq$ 0, enable the use of the Fermi-Amaldi potential as reference potential when applying the charge condition. Otherwise, the reference potential is constructed according to Eq. (45) of Ref. [2] (default: '1')
- **thr_oep** threshold for throwing out contributions corresponding to small eigenvalue differences appearing in the denominator when constructing the so-called lambda term $1/(\varepsilon_a - \varepsilon_i)$ of the static Kohn-Sham response function (default: ‘1d-6’)
- **solve** matrix inversion methods to solve the OEP equation. The different options are: GESV, TSVD, GTSVD. GESV corresponds to a direct solution without any regularization technique. TSVD and GTSVD correspond to two solutions with regularization according to Eqs. (55) and (56) of Ref. [3], respectively. (default: 'GTSVD')
- **thr_solve** threshold used during matrix inversion to solve the OEP equation with TSVD and TGSVD methods. Note that the default threshold of 1d-99 results in the absence of regularization (default: ‘1d-99’)
- **plot_always** if set to $\neq$ 0, enable plotting for every iteration. Otherwise, only final results are plotted. (default: '0')
- **plot_vc** if set to $\neq$ 0, enable writing of file with correlation potential (default: '0')
- **plot_vx** if set to $\neq$ 0, enable writing of file with exchange potential (default: '0')
- **plot_vxc** if set to $\neq$ 0,enable writing of file with exchange-correlation potential (default: '0')
- **plot_vref** if set to $\neq$ 0, enable writing of file with reference potential (default: '0')
- **plot_rho_ks** if set to $\neq$ 0, enable writing of file with Kohn-Sham density (default: '0')
- **plot_rho_ref** if set to $\neq$ 0, enable writing of file with reference reference (default: '0')
- **plot_rho_diff** if set to $\neq$ 0, enable writing of file with difference between Kohn-Sham and reference density (default: '0')
- **plot_x** if set to $\neq$ 0, enable writing of file data along x-axis (default: '0')
- **plot_y** if set to $\neq$ 0, enable writing of file data along y-axis (default: '0')
- **plot_z** if set to $\neq$ 0, enable writing of file data along z-axis (default: '0')
- **gridsize**
- **plotrange**
- **verb** determines the level of verbosity in the output file, integer values of 0, 1, 2, and 3 provide different levels of verbosity (default ’0’)

Because the KS correlation and exchange potentials are important in KS inversion, we provide an illustration of how to plot these quantities. Let us assume that we have performed calculations for CO with the following options:
```
acfd;ksinv,refden=1325.1,e_ref=-113.285493180105,thr_fai_oep=1.7d-2,\ ! KSINV calculation
plot_vx=1,plot_vc=1,plot_vxc=1,plot_vref=1,plot_z=1
```
In the end one has the files vref-final.z, vx-final.z, vc-final.z and vxc-final.z with reference, exchange, correlation and exchange-correlation potentials respectively. Potentials can be plotted using python and matplotlib as follows:
```
import sys
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

def load_potential(filename):
    """Read data from file."""
    coord = list()
    pot = list()
    for line in open(filename):
        aux = line.split()
        coord.append(float(aux[2]))
        pot.append(float(aux[3]))
    coord = np.array(coord)
    pot = np.array(pot)
    return coord, pot

coord, vref = load_potential('vref-final.z')
coord, vx = load_potential('vx-final.z')
coord, vc = load_potential('vc-final.z')
coord, vxc = load_potential('vxc-final.z')

plt.plot(coord, vref+vx, color='orangered', label='$v_x$')
plt.plot(coord, vc, color='dodgerblue', label='$v_c$')
plt.plot(coord, vref+vxc, color='lawngreen', label='$v_{xc}$')

plt.ylabel('Potential (Hartree)', fontsize=16)
plt.xlabel('r (Bohr)', fontsize=16)
plt.ylim(-2, 0.35)
plt.xlim(-5, 5)
plt.legend(frameon=False, fontsize=14)
plt.show()
```
![](ksinv_co.png)

CCSD(T)

FCI

**Bibilography:**  
[1] J. Erhard, E. Trushin, A. Görling [J. Chem. Phys.](https://aip.scitation.org/doi/full/10.1063/5.0087356) 156, 204124 (2022)  
[2] E. Trushin, A. Görling, [J. Chem. Phys.](https://aip.scitation.org/doi/full/10.1063/5.0056431) 155, 054109 (2021)  
[3] P. Bleiziffer, A. Heßelmann, A. Görling [J. Chem. Phys.](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.4818984) 139, 084113 (2013)
